[FLINK-16730][docs] Python SDK Getting Started (#77)
apache/flink-statefun: docs/getting-started/walkthrough.md

This identifier points to a particular Kafka cluster and is configured on deployment below.

## A Stateful Hello

This is a great start, but does not show off the real power of stateful functions - working with state.
Suppose you want to generate a personalized response for each user depending on how many times they have sent a request.

{% highlight python %}
def compute_greeting(name, seen):
    """
    Compute a personalized greeting, based on the number of times this @name had been seen before.
    """
    templates = ["", "Welcome %s", "Nice to see you again %s", "Third time is a charm %s"]
    if seen < len(templates):
        greeting = templates[seen] % name
    else:
        greeting = "Nice to see you at the %d-nth time %s!" % (seen, name)

    response = GreetResponse()
    response.name = name
    response.greeting = greeting

    return response
{% endhighlight %}

To “remember” information across multiple greeting messages, you then need to associate a persisted value field (``seen_count``) to the Greet function.
For each user, functions can now track how many times they have been seen.

{% highlight python %}
@functions.bind("example/greeter")

> def greet(context, message: GreetRequest):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def greet(context, greet_request: GreetRequest):
```

Because I get 
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 2446, in wsgi_app
    response = self.full_dispatch_request()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 1951, in full_dispatch_request
    rv = self.handle_user_exception(e)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 1820, in handle_user_exception
    reraise(exc_type, exc_value, tb)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/flask/_compat.py", line 39, in reraise
    raise value
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 1949, in full_dispatch_request
    rv = self.dispatch_request()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 1935, in dispatch_request
    return self.view_functions[rule.endpoint](**req.view_args)
  File "/app/greeter.py", line 72, in handle
    response_data = handler(request.data)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/statefun/request_reply.py", line 39, in __call__
    reply = self.handle_invocation(request)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/statefun/request_reply.py", line 54, in handle_invocation
    self.invoke_batch(batch, context, target_function)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/statefun/request_reply.py", line 99, in invoke_batch
    fun(context, invocation.argument)
  File "/app/greeter.py", line 52, in greet
    response = compute_greeting(greet_request.name, state.seen)
NameError: name 'greet_request' is not defined
```

Author: nice catch

Stateful Function applications communicate with the Apache Flink runtime using `http`.
The Python SDK ships with a ``RequestReplyHandler`` that automatically dispatches function calls based on RESTful HTTP ``POSTS``.
The ``RequestReplyHandler`` may be exposed using any HTTP framework.

One popular Python web framework is [Flask](https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/).
It can be used to quickly and easily expose an application to the Apache Flink runtime.

{% highlight python %}
from statefun import StatefulFunctions
from statefun import RequestReplyHandler

functions = StatefulFunctions()

@functions.bind("walkthrough/greeter")
def greeter(context, message: GreetRequest):
    pass

handler = RequestReplyHandler(functions)

# Serve the endpoint

from flask import request
from flask import make_response
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/statefun', methods=['POST'])
def handle():
    response_data = handler(request.data)
    response = make_response(response_data)
    response.headers.set('Content-Type', 'application/octet-stream')
    return response

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run()
{% endhighlight %}

## Configuring for Runtime

> The Apache Flink runtime makes requests to the greeter function by making `http` calls to the `Flask` server.

Reviewer: Just a thought: Not sure how we are positioning StateFun, but this sounds like something coming directly from Flink?
Maybe we could somehow phrase this to come from the "server side" of statefun running in Flink?

If we are doing a good job, we might have users who are not even really aware that this is powered by Flink.

Author: I'll find a way to rephrase it, you're right, you don't need to understand Flink for this getting started.

That said, I don't think you could go to production without understanding the project's relationship to Flink. We may want to follow up with a dedicated page explaining how these projects are related.

            type: statefun.kafka.io/generic-egress
            id: example/greets
          spec:
            address: kafka-broker:9092
            deliverySemantic:
              type: exactly-once
              transactionTimeoutMillis: 100000
{% endhighlight %}

This configuration does a few interesting things.

The first is to declare our function, `example/greeter`.
It includes the endpoint by which it is reachable along with the states the function has access to.

The ingress is the input Kafka topic that routes `GreetRequest` messages to the function.
Along with basic properties like broker address and consumer group, it contains a list of targets.
These are the functions each message will be sent to.

The egress is the output Kafka cluster.
It contains broker specific configurations but allows each message to route to any topic.

## Deployment

Now that the greeter application has been built it is time to deploy. 
The simplest way to deploy a Stateful Function application is by using the community provided base image and loading your module.
The base image provides the Stateful Function runtime, it will use the provided `module.yaml` to configure for this specific job.

> This can be found in the docker file in the root directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be found in the `Dockerfile` in the root directory. 
```

{% highlight docker %}
FROM statefun

RUN mkdir -p /opt/statefun/modules/greeter
ADD module.yaml /opt/statefun/modules/greeter
{% endhighlight %}

You can now run this application locally using the provided Docker setup.

{% highlight bash %}

> $ docker-compose up -d

Reviewer: Is this supposed to work?
```
Building master
Step 1/3 : FROM statefun
ERROR: Service 'master' failed to build: pull access denied for statefun, repository does not exist or may require 'docker login': denied: requested access to the resource is denied
```

Author: Not yet because we haven't released :) In the mean time you can build the image locally using the `./build-distrubition.sh` script in the tools folder.

Reviewer: Thx. That worked

```
Step 5/9 : RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
 ---> Running in 7a9ee7fda4f7
ERROR: Could not find a version that satisfies the requirement apache-flink-statefun (from -r requirements.txt (line 17)) (from versions: none)
ERROR: No matching distribution found for apache-flink-statefun (from -r requirements.txt (line 17))
ERROR: Service 'python-worker' failed to build: The command '/bin/sh -c pip install -r requirements.txt' returned a non-zero code: 1
```

How do I get `apache-flink-statefun` into that Docker build?

I managed to create a `RELEASE_VERSION=2.0 ./create_python_sdk_release.sh` release

Author: Update `greeter/Dockerfile` to be

```
FROM python:3.7-alpine

RUN mkdir -p /app
WORKDIR /app

COPY apache_flink_statefun-snapshot-py3-none-any.whl /app
RUN pip install apache_flink_statefun-snapshot-py3-none-any.whl

COPY requirements.txt /app
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt

COPY greeter.py /app
COPY messages_pb2.py /app

EXPOSE 8000

CMD ["gunicorn", "-b", "0.0.0.0:8000", "-w 4", "greeter:app"]
```

Again, just a stop gap until the first release. This is why I have the warning that we do not publish snapshot versions of the python sdk.
